# General introduction
- Volumes are the preferred mechanism for persisting data generated by and used by Docker containers. While bind mounts are dependent on the directory structure and OS of the host machine, volumes are completely managed by Docker

### Flocker is an open-source Container Data Volume Manager for your Dockerized applications.

- A volume manager which combines the management of containers and their persistent data. It supports multi-host environments, simplifying the migration of volumes between hosts as containers get rescheduled


# Advantages

* Unlike a Docker data volume which is tied to a single server, a Flocker data volume, called a dataset, is portable and can be used with any container, no matter where that container is running.
 This portability ensures volumes are available wherever containers are. Traditional Docker volumes can’t leave the host they’re created on, forcing your containers to stay in stasis too.[specific storage engines for each server]

Distributed storage support makes it easier to transition containers into production. Flocker is ideal for stateful containers that need to be scaled in distributed environments while maintaining compatibility with varied storage engines. It supports backends including Amazon EBS, Google GCE, and OpenStack Block Storage

* Flocker manages Docker containers and data volumes together. When you use Flocker to manage your stateful microservice, your volumes will follow your containers when they move between different hosts in your cluster.

* *** You can also use Flocker to manage only your volumes ***, while continuing to manage your containers however you choose.


### Flocker Integrations

Flocker allows you to launch and move stateful containers by integrating with a Cluster Manager of your choice.
Flocker integrates with a range of Cluster Managers.


# Useful links

[1](https://flocker.readthedocs.io/en/latest/)
[2](https://github.com/ClusterHQ/flocker)